Hello everyone and welcome to part one of the blog clone project.
Now we're going to start off in this short lecture just setting up our jingle project.
The application is going to be a single application project blog and then we'll also just do an initial
run make sure everything's working.
After that we'll set up a few files within our application a couple of your pie forms up-I those typical
files that we're going to need for larger scale projects.
OK let's shift to the editor and get started here and at the Adam text editor before we get started.
Anything I want to make sure we set up some sort of virtual environment.
This is optional if you don't have any plans on actually uploading this Web site to the Web and you're
just working locally.
But it is a good idea to have the virtual environment.
I'm going to be activating the one we've always been using which is my jingo E.A..
Feel free to create a new environment for each project.
In fact that's what I would encourage you as a best practice.
OK.
So I can see what the prince sees my jingle envy is ready to go.
So I'm going to CD into a folder that I just made called Blog project and you can actually see it up
here and there jingle lectures.
We have those other king levels in here.
Jingo blog project and this we're all called Django dash admen say start project and then whatever you
want to call the project.
Don't call this project blog because that's actually going to be the name of our application within
the project.
So usually you want to call your project some sort of nickname that corresponds to the site itself.
For instance if you were making an Instagram clone you would call your project insta or Instagram or
Instagram project kind of thing you wouldn't want to call it something like pictures or messaging.
So here we're going to do is just call it the most basic nickname can do which is my site so I'll say
start project my site and then we're going to CD into my site and if I expand this over here on the
left hand tab I should see my site and then my site number we get this kind of dual folders and we also
have managed up-I so within my site I'm also going to start my application so we can call it Shingo
that admen and you can actually do this with Python managed pi as well but I like doing it through jingo
admen just to make sure I'm doing everything correctly and then the only application will have is the
main blogging application that's going to be able to accept posts and comments for the blog.
So we'll just call it blog and that's sort of the reason we don't want you to actually call the project
itself blog because the main application is called Blog.
OK.
So here we have blog ready to go.
I'm going to expand blog and there's a couple of more files that I want in here.
I want a URLs that PI file because eventually I'm going to need that.
So say a new file within blog called you URLs not pi and then I also plan to create some forms.
So again inside a blog all say new file and call it forms thought pi.
OK that's really all we need for now.
Later on we'll add some template folders etc. but whenever you add in a new application you always want
to make sure that you come to settings that apply come down.
Scroll down to where it says install apps and make sure that the application that you just created is
there.
And if you ever get some errors with this whenever you're running your server make sure that your format
is the same as mine to notice here that I have logged project my site and then under my site I have
two folders.
The blog all the applications the project folder and then you're managed up high.
Sometimes a little confusing that you have two folders a set the rectory at the exact same name as its
parent there victory.
That's basically how Django does this automatically so just keep an eye out for that.
Make sure you're in the right my site folder.
OK once you've done that let's do it we should always do which is called Peifer managed up-I and migrate
everything.
So say Python managed up-I migrate.
Enter is going to run all those migrations.
Looks like everything's working well.
And then we also want to set up perhaps location.
So I'll say Python make migrations and then call the application we want which is blog.
Whoops I need to say Python mintage stop py make migrations and then called blog OK no changes to an
app blog.
As expected I don't actually have any new models there.
We'll take care of that later on because here we have a empty models but it's always a good idea to
do that and you probably heard me say this a million times by now.
I always like to just run migrate one more time just to check that it says no change is detected.
And it says no migration to apply.
Perfect.
So let's make sure this actually all works out.
I'll call Python managed to apply and run the server OK looks like we have no errors there.
I'm going to copy this and bring over my browser and then bring in over my browser page.
Here it is.
It worked.
Congratulations on your first Django power page.
That's exactly what we want and hopefully by now this whole process of setting up your projects the
applications a couple of files are going to need do the migrations and running the actual server.
They should all be really familiar to you.
And honestly by now you probably have these steps memorized if you don't I would encourage you to run
through his homework time on your own completely until you have the steps memorized because this is
what you're going to be doing basically every time you start a python Django project.
That's it for this lecture.
Pretty short on just getting everything set up in the next couple of lectures will start actually filling
out some of these files.
So everyone I'll see at the next lecture.